**Final Article Abstract:**
Di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) is a plastic additive that is ubiquitous in today's aquatic environments. Given its previous established association with reproductive toxicity, this raises the question of how parental exposure impacts the next generation. Using RNA-seq, I evaluated the transcriptome of zebrafish males directly exposed to DEHP as well as their unexposed offspring. I also assessed the transcriptomic responses of males directly exposed to DEHP-laden microplastics to determine how the coexposure influences the transcriptomic effects. We identified transcriptomic responses in the directly exposed individuals that supported previous findings of DEHP induced endoplasmic reticulum stress and disrupted steroid hormone synthesis within the testes. We also found that exposure to virgin microplastics induces a similar endoplasmic reticulum stress response within the gonads. In the offspring generation, indirect exposure through the parental generation altered the expression of genes related to memory and social behaviour in the brain, steroid hormone biosynthesis in the testis and acetate and lipid metabolism in the liver. These results suggest that DEHP exposure can cause intergenerational affects, with the potential to impart adverse behavioural, reproductive and metabolic phenotypes. This study is among the first to evaluate the intergenerational effects of DEHP in an aquatic model organism.

**This Project**
The reads for the three tissue types, Brain, Gonad (testes) and liver, are avaliable in this project. The avaliable scripts go through differential gene expression identification with DESeq2 and Limma. As well as making volcano plots, PCA plots and Heatmaps. 
